Okay.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah. Do you know from the. Yeah.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I did. Don't worry about it. Next week. There will be some. Can we do it anytime today? If possible, I'll be there.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I you can help him and then you'll get to update. I sent you an email, you don't want to send you an email regarding.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Then I did two delay. You have two for me I only take this vessel.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Should be ok. But if you have problems you still couldn't get time up. But.
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But.
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Have you already telling me.
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's because I don't wear my glasses, I mean my glasses and I read, I kept mixing up the numbers. No problem.
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
N N.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
89845 five.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Mark?
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh, thank you.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sure.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. So.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, u.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. Okay.
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm good.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. So.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That one.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, u.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, good morning and let us just continue with our lecture.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Or capacities. So when we.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The charging fees is when we, the capacitor is empty. Capacity is NO NO NO energy or NO battery, and we start to charge, ok?
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, that's why we have the curve because it's not immediate. It's not like 0a0 until we see like immediate. It has to.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It has to take time, and this is called the charging phase. So the voltage, the voltage needs time to be fully charged. And this is this is time.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the voltage needs time to go from zero until the maximum, and it cannot, if you still charge, it will not go beyond that. It's already separated. So this process is called a charging and similar to your mobile phone, you.
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You charge your mobile phone. So when this the switch is closed, when you start to charge the voltage across it changes. And so.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this means, it's voltage is zero and a rapid increase and then after keep charging you cannot increase any small increase and here you cannot increase anymore. So charging fees.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And also sometimes it's called transient period. Transient period. So once we reach, reach here, so this is a transient transient period.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And once we reach around here, it's called steady state. It's called steady states, it's called steady states. So there must be a formula because it's not straight lines, it's not like this. There it.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is in this manner. So there is a formula how to can how can we represent we because we must there is some formulas to relate.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
With some form of T So when T is, here, maybe one milliseconds, you can put value here, you get the value of V When T is 0.5, you get the value of V when T is something here, you get the value of V So there must be.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
A formula that relates the the V and then there is maybe some E to the power something. E to the power something because it is increasing in, in the form of exponential E.
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I would like to, to inform that this is from the 1st principle how we get the formula. This means the formula is the the curve is like this.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, what time, voltage and and this is the maximum, so at any point.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is the formula. So we see, V V of capacitor is equals to the E E is from the voltage supply. So if you we have this arrangement.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
E one minus E through the minus time over our C So this is the from the 1st formula I will from the 1st principles how we derive this formula, so I will.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Maybe I will, I will skip it ok you can you can if you want you can read read it and But what is here it's is the formula for the voltage across capacitor is equals to the.
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Voltage E or one minus E through minus time over RC over RC. So this is this curves formula.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This curves formula. And the product RC can be replaced by a time constant this is the Greek alphabet Tao. So you can write.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can write a VC, the voltage across the capacitor is the voltage E, multiply by one minus E to the minus time over towel.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Where Tao is R C Tao is R multi the value of R multiply by the value of C So, but from so this means it's easier because Tao.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This so here is one towel and this means here is 2000 because RC is already fixed in the circuit, so you can I just redraw it here.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is the E, this is the R And this is the C, this is the E this is the R and this is the C and.
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The RC of the circuit is giving to you the value of RNC and this value of RNC is better to is replace is called down or the time constant time.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Tao is called the time constant, time constant, so we can play around with some values such as one ARMC or one Tao. What if what happened at 2000?
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we can, this means the good thing is E, so I if I zoom it here, I I just zoom it here E minus T over town. So let's see what is happening at.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Time equals to one town. So when time equals to 1000, this means minus tower, time equals to one town minus tower over town. What is happening at time equals to 2000?
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So when it's time equals to 2000, when is T over towel. So this is minus T the time equals to 2000 minus.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Two tahoe over towel, so this can be canceled. What what's happening when time is equals to 3000, so E to the minus T over towel from the formula?
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So we can say time is equals to, three Tao over towel. So, so this happens at E to the minus three. So as a convention.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because as I before this I just mentioned when charge for a long time, this means when you charge your battery for a long or the capacitor for a long time, it doesn't increase and you know your mobile phone battery, if you keep charging it will it's already a hundred percent.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
That's already a hundred percent. So this is long time means 5000 so is this understood and it's you can do six town, 7000 is NO more change, it's NO more changing. So, 5000 when you reach.
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Time equals to 5000 it's called steady states is beyond that it's steady state, it's NO more increasing because from the principle, this is a transient.
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
State and this is the steady state, but what is the best or what is the indicator when time is equals to 5000 you have reached full charge or steady state?
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So that is, that is the understanding that is the convention when time is 5000 it's fully charged or steady states. And from the beginning of the lecture, I mentioned that.
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We always go to the 1st principle, this means at zero, the capacitor acts like a short circuit wire and at status at 5000, the capacitor acts like an.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Like an open circuit. So when it is short circuit, if you want to draw the current, so at this moment the current is flowing nicely, so it's maximum, so the current is maximum, but when it is keep charged when it's.
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Reach 5000 its fully open 2nd looks like open 2nd opensecret NO current, so this means.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Current is less so the current also will current this is here but I just draw in the same draft, the current will be like a compliment or the opposite to the, to the voltage process.
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So that is how we look at the voltage across the capacitor and the current, the current. So the current is here, the current. So this is very many theories that we learned today.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Especially 5000 in this slide, the importance of five time constant of 5000 because that's the point of, like, NO more, NO more increase in the voltage or NO more charging costs already.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Statement already saturated. So this factor town equals to RC is called the time constant, the time constant of the network, and.
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The time constant, if we want to check the unit on the left hand side and on the right hand side, we can do that because, the resistor is V over I and the capacitor is Q over V.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And then we can cancel out the V ok and and then I is Q over D I in itself is Q over D.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And then after that Q and Q cancels so you will get T and it is confirmed that on the left hand side is time Tao is in seconds and on the right hand side is also the unit is.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
T is reached also in seconds. So, if we have mentioned the formula for voltage.
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For the voltage across the capacitor, this is done, the formula is VC equals the voltage E one minus B.
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Minus time over a TAO, where Tao is the power multiplier seat. So this is the formula that represents the voltage.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you can check if I want to check at this time you can substitute the time. But how about the current, the current, how can we represent the equation for the current?
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For the current. So the current equation this means if we have the expression for the voltage, the current is this one and it's also in the form of E to the power something and the current is E over R.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
T over R multiply by E to the minus T over RC or T over time. So there is some similarities, so I hope you can remember this.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One equation for the voltage and one equation for the current. But remembering it's not so difficult because the understanding you can see, it's logical, ok? It's logical.
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So one is charging and one is decreasing. So this increasing and this decreasing. So that's.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yes. Yeah, another tips is one minus is increasing exponentially increasing. But if there's NO one, so if you know the current is decreasing so you don't apply the one. So it.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And, but perhaps in the formula sheet, I will show you whether in the final exam, this will be provided in the formula sheet, but at least when you reach you when you study you are familiar with it.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Even if you do not remember, you know, oh, this is, this is the correct one, this is the correct one, ok? So, so this previously we have talked in the previous 30 min, we have talked about the.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Charging, charging fees, charging fees, because this means this what is applied this switch and then this register and this capacitance.
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And you, you close the switch and the capacitor is charging. So this means this one, the voltage is like this. So now you close the switch, so this.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The switch is charging. But let's say this is like charging your mobile phone. So now you take out, you want to go somewhere, so you you are NO more connected to the charge.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this means all the power is stored. Now you are using, your capacitors as a source and this at the end, maybe how long is your phone able to, to stand one day?
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
12 h or 6 h, so that is called discharging. This means the capacitor in your mobile phone is discharging because it's not connected to the voltage source and you use and discharging means.
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It will, so this formula, the voltage is going to, so I will draw side by side, ok, side by side. So this.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is charging. Okay, this voltage is charging. Then I will draw a different one. So now you disconnect, let's say you disconnect the voltage fly and it will start.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To this charge. So, the voltage this this of course the different formula should be applied. This formula, so I will revise what we have learned just now during this time.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage across capacity during the charging is E, one minus E minus time over the towel where the towel.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
How is auto multiplied by C Okay R multiplied by C And obviously this is not going to be the same formula because it's declaying or discharging. So at this moment.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The formula, as you expect is E And your friends mentioned because discharging is NO NO one, this good way to remember E to the minus T.
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Over down and and going a different color, so we will put here, current, the current 1st faster.
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So at this moment, the car at this moment during the charging it's here? So when the point of discharging the current will be in the the opposite and it will.
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Discharge in this manner. So it's when it is the opposite there is the minus E over R And E, E to the power minus T over.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I've seen. So that that is this part, this this this part of the current when it is charging. So that's slight different when the current is discharging.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Sorry, when your current is charging, it is E over R, E through the minus T over rc. So the only difference is by putting the minus. So when it is charging E over R.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
E the minus T over rc. And when it is discharging phase, it's just put minus. It just put.
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Minus the opposite sign is there. So here I will, this region is charging and this region is discharging.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So let's look at.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One example, so calculate voltage C this this one voltage C, when, and I also I see when the switch is placed.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In position two, ok? So this is the, when the switch is position two, there is NO more, NO more supported by the voltage source. So obviously this is a discharge phase.
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is a discharge phase. So, I already drawn it just now, but here is another drawing. So when, previously it was here, when it was here, there's NO here that it was charging.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And then when you this when you put it here this is switched to here, so this is discharge phase normal supported supported by the voltage. So that is region two.
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Region two and here it's the, the voltage formula C And this this the current formula when it is discharging phase, when it is discharging phase.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And here it is written 5000 after a long time for the full charge, 5000 and after after discharging, after 5000 your mobile phone battery is finished because you have used.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This means you after during the discharging phase, you are using your mobile phone without the charger, but it will declare and will finish will be zero and the current.
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Also we'll increase but from the from the negative towards zero. And here, RC is. RC is eight kiloms divided and multiply R is eight multiply by four.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So micro is ten to the minus six. I just, just remember micro is ten to the minus six and kilo is ten to the power three. And, and here is.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so here is 40 v because is the maximum, the maximum during this time when this is connected, the switch is connected to one, this is we obtained the voltage.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
C is 40 v, ok, 40 v, and when current starting point is 5 million because current is 40 divided E divided by R.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So just be just be At this point the current is opposite, comes minus the MPL and it increases to zero. So here is the.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cycle for the voltage and current. So here the voltage is charging and then let's say after 5000 you decide to switch the current to the other side and this call is discharging.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And then after 10000 you switch back to charging maybe your mobile phone battery is finished, so you then charge again and this cycle is as follows. And similarly, complementary, the current starts.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
In 5 million MPS, so decay to zero at 5000 after this five time constant then discharging and incre increased zero and then after that.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Back to position one is continued. So this is the cycle of charging and discharging. So this is another example of charging and discharging.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I think in the laboratories, you have experience, you have learned in advance, you have learned time constant I believe all discharging and discharging in the laboratories, and now you, now you encounter in the lectures.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So find VC, so we have this situation, so now the switch is in position one. This is equivalent to, so this at this moment, the 10 kg is not relevant.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because it's disconnected. So what is the value of Tao at this moment? Tao is RC. So this moment, the RC is.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is not relevant R two is not relevant, so 20 kilomes Multiply by 0.050 .05 are microformance. And you will obtain the value of time.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
1 million and we were asked to find the voltage across the, the current at T equals to zero and the current.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So what is happening at T equal to zero? The, the capacitor acts like a short 2nd, so this means just imagine it's a wire, the straight wire instead of, instead of.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Just draw it draw it like this, so you can observe that the current is a voltage over 20 kiloms voltage, 30 kg and if we view VC.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay.
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's zero at times two because this is just subscription the VC is zero, ok? So, now, let us So at time equals to zero, VC is zero.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So now let us continue our theory of charging to find the formula for when it's charging the pool for the voltage and.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
For the current, for the voltage and for the current. So if we know, I have already informed you just now what is RC, but you can now you can now find.
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You can now answer the next question. What is R multiply by C? What is R Multiply by C So at time equals to zero.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What is R multiplied by C?
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, so at time equals to zero, the switch is here ok and.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, so I I think most of you got right, so one milliseconds, ok? 20 kiloms multiplied by 0.05 microphots, so.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It is R C R multiplied by C or Tao is one millisecond. Tao is one milliseconds. And if we put back the formula this let me make it larger.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So if we put back the formula, that the voltage, so the pink one, the voltage across the capacitor is 12 v multiply by one minus E to the minus T over one milliseconds.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And the green one, the IC is a voltage E divided by the 20 kg multiply by E to the minus T over one milliseconds. So I think.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What is the next question is, so I'll correct, all the correct answers here. So the next question is as follows at that time equals zero five IC.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, at time equals to zero. So I will write here I see is twelves divided by 20 kilowaters, E through minus D.
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Over Tao Tao is one milliseconds, but it it wants us to find at at the beginning, so this E to the power zero is simply one.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So, this means it is twelve over 20 K, ok? So either power time equals zero is one. So it is at time equals to zero I see can be.
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Found can be found, so I see.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is 0.6 milli ampus. 0.6 millionampies ok.
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So after, after that, this is position one. This is position one, this is position two and this is position three. So, after ten milliseconds, so at zero milliseconds.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Switch is one after that. Wait for one after ten milliseconds, the switch is in position two. This means NO connection and NO, yeah, the switch is not connected to one or.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Three, so after ten milliseconds, we see the VC is still twelve votes, so VC is looking from here. So this is two position two.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
20, so I will draw it here position 02:20 kilomet, the, the capacitors and the ground, and this is not useful at all, not, not relevant because it's position two, not position three, so.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the end, we are looking we see in, in here, in here. So this means this is.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
VC. So it's like discharging also, so previously it was the voltage is this and the current is this. So when the is location two, it will, start to.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It it will, the the voltage is still twelve votes because at this moment looking in this from here, from here, it is looking still at twelve votes, so that means suddenly.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Cause we suddenly snapped when the switch is turned into the middle, which is two suddenly it the voltage goes to voltage is almost zero at five town and then go up back.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
02:12 votes, ok? Twelve votes. And the current is still, because the current is approaching zero, I mean zero, but still in the middle which is switched to it is.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Still here, still here, right? Okay now after that.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The switch, after ten milliseconds the switch is here and then after that 1st the change fast to position three. So change fast to position three.
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What will be the town? How is rc, right? So what is C is still 0.05. What do you think is the value of R at this position three?
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
30 kW. Yeah, because now now this part is connected so our C is 30 kW. So now we are talking when the switch is at .3.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So actually .2 was like a transition. This happened at ten milliseconds but after that passed, go to here and how is RC and your friend already mentioned.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you can click the next question. The Tao at this moment is R C and please answer what is the value of Tao. What is the value of Tao? When.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We switch, the switch is located at position three.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, and I think you've got the answer.
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
30 kg multiplied by 0.05. So now we if we draw as a as a summary of the whole, the rate, the rate curves when it was at position one, which means it's the voltage is charging the current is.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Decreasing. The blue side is like a temporary or transit position position two. So VC is here and I see is here.
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, we see it's here, I see it's here. But now when the switch is at position three, so this is the permanent this the norm normal transit three, so it's discharging.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The voltage is reducing, the current will, will go to negative and increasing to zero, increasing to zero, but start from the negative. So if this.
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current is, the current, what it will be the current at position three. So of course the answer is negative. The answer must be negative. We could we agree, but what is the steps? What is the.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Steps. So the steps, the next question, you can see the steps. What is the current at this so when this is happening at position three.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current is also voltage over total resistance, but of course there is a negative opposite sign, you have to be careful with that. You have to be, be aware of that.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, I will just display it.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And all slow states that the current is the voltage divided by not 10 kg by by 30 kilowamts because the series this is one circuit, so the current is voltage divided by 30 kilowaters.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is how you can see the the graphs and what's happening during this period. Negative, yeah, direction. So another interesting example is this one. This.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Have a current source and android resisted to it?
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And we have the position one and position two. Position one means the, the 2nd, the the discharging stage and later when we move to position two, it is the discharging phase.
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But what is interesting here, can you relate some, if it's moved to position two at the equals to 1000? What does it mean? What is relation to 5000?
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What does it mean by one town? One time constant. This means it's not fully charged, right? It's just we have to wait five time constant for the mobile phone battery to be fully charged, but here maybe.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
He just he or she just one time constraint I disconnected, so still have some power but not fully charged. So this is 3.3 %. So perhaps a five time constant is here but here maybe just one.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Maybe at this at this .1 time constant is at this point not not the hundred percent fully charged. So that is you can observed that the meaning behind it, the meaning behind one one towel. So 1st of all, it's better to.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To convert, now it's source transformation knowledge that we learned in the past two or three weeks.
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
If we have a current source and resistors in parallel, it's better to to to solve this circuit using voltage source and current in series. So I hope as a form of revision.
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What will be the value of the voltage source? This form of revision, the next question, what will be after source transformation, what will be.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The value, how many votes will be, this one? How many votes will be the voltage source after source transformation? I hope you.
187 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This form of revision, ok? If you have to work the current source in parallel with 4 million MPS in parallel with five kiloms, how can we, how can we transform to become a voltage source with a certain volts with.
188 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The five kilomet in series tweet. So I think most of you have correct, very good correct correct answers. So, so you multiply the 4 million MPS and 5 kg to get 20 v and don't forget to.
189 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To put the 5 kg in series to it. So now we have, this and now we close, we put the switch in position one. So when we put the switch in position one.
190 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We have this circuit, so three kilomes here, five kilomes here. So if we have this circuit, can I ask you, what is TAO? Tao is, of course you know it's RC, C I believe you know is this one, but what is the value of R? What is.
191 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Is the value of R Tao is RC, right? So I just right here. In this situation, Tao is RC, C is quite straightforward, it's ten micro, but now I hope you can look at this circuit.
192 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
To find, to determine what is R in order to get the right tao, the right town. So the next question will ask you, what is the value of Tao at this moment?
193 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
What is the value of Tao at this moment? I think It's treated.
194 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The orgs and this is.
195 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, so the value of Tao is, five R is in series so five plus three is eight eight kilomes multiplied by ten microparats eight 80 milliseconds, ok? 80 milliseconds is the value of town.
196 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So now, you waited not five tal, but you wait for one Tao only because the question says at one towel, the switch is moved to position two. But before we move.
197 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
At the moment of movement to position two, it's one town. So at this moment at this moment VC VC is E.
198 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One minus E through the minus T over towel. So when T equals to zero T equals to different, but when T equals to one tout.
199 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
20 equals to, one towel, this is the value of the voltage at that moment. So I hope I already give the hints so.
200 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The at 1000, what will be the value of VC at that moment? Very good. 74 students, 74 students.
201 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So at X and T equals to 1000, so put the one town there, what will be the value of VC at T equals to one town?
202 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And but remember one towel is 80 just to for your information, one towel is 80 milliseconds. You see equals.
203 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
20 equals to 1020 equals to one.
204 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I think let me see, I'm almost there, so I just close it. So because so E, E to the minus one. So if you use our calculator further.
205 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One minus E three minus one multiply by 20, so this is 12.64 votes. So what is the drawing looks like? It means during the charge charging, it's supposed to, to go further until five towel, right?
206 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Until five town, but at one town, already disconnect, already disconnect, so that's why we want to find, the voltage at one town. This is the point.
207 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Before the disconnection, before that this it switched to switch two. And similarly, I hope you still remember the IC, I see but I will write it here, IC is E over resistance.
208 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
E to the minus T over town, but we are interested at this moment when T, when, when at the time of equals to a one town.
209 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So you know E, you know the value of E, you know the value of R So I hope the next question, please select the value, please select the right answer for the value of IC at this moment.
210 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And T equals to 1000 T equals to one town, and T equals to one town.
211 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because the town and town can be canceled but just you must know what is E at this moment and what is far at this moment at this meeting. Okay, I think we need to check.
212 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Like 74 students, NO answer yet, is it? No, NO NO answer selected yet. I see. So here I mentioned here.
213 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This this my steps show so this in actual fact, it's, we it's to he hasn't reached five town then it's already discharged.
214 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current also already here, at least this is the meaning of when 1000. Okay, so let me check again.
215 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's not moving, yeah? It's not showing the results never mind. So I will So here, so, 20 worlds divided by.
216 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Eight kilomes multiply by E to the minus one of our And so it is 0.92 milli ampus. 0.92 milli ampus. So.
217 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Now, at at so we have found at the point of one town VC is 12.64 v and at the point of time equals to one town, I see is 0.92 million NPS.
218 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But now let's look at when the switch is moved, now the, after T equals to 1000, the switch is moved, is located at .2. So this means all is the old one.
219 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So even the voltage source can look here. So, now it's located here so it means this will be normal relevant because it's located.
220 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Here, right? It's located at location number two. So these two will be normal relevant, I just did it here. So when this is normal relevant, this means.
221 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
We have, so forgot this the one K At this moment when it's moved to here, then the one K shouldn't be forgotten, right?
222 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
When it moved to location two, when it is moved to location two, there is a register here. There is a register of one kilograms here. So.
223 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So now I draw redraw the situation, the 2nd when it's at location two, there is a register one kilomet here and a register three kilomes. So the 1st step is always to find the tao. And I call it Tao two. Tao at switch two, just to differentiate between the town.
224 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Now at the switch one and previous Tao. So again, Tao is register Tao is rc, right? Tao two is rc. So in this situation I hope you you are able to know what is the value of R.
225 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And C C is straightforward is only one C So let's answer the next question. Let's answer the next question. What is the Tao in location two at position two?
226 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So the position two, this is the 2nd, this is the 2nd when the towel is at location two. This is the 2nd.
227 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And I will always start with the time constant time, find it. R C and C is of course this one, but now I hope you are able to find what is the R in this situation.
228 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And let's see. I think you are I think you you know the knowledge and you know the theory now very well, all the right answers at the moment. So, many, NO NO wrong answers at all so far?
229 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Hundred percent right answers. So that's good. It shows that you are following well, the concept and the theory and with that I can disclose, so the R is four kilomes.
230 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Multiply and the C is ten micro forux so the tao two is 40 μs. So, to find the final answer is the expression for the voltage.
231 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
During this moment is, that's why we need to find at 1000 because this is the starting voltage. Okay, this is the 12.64 is the.
232 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The location, I mean the the voltage at one towel and this is discharging is E to the minus T over towel over 40 milliseconds. And the current is the opposite?
233 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The current is minus and it is, it must be voltage over resistance, but that at that moment the voltage is 12.64 and at that moment the resistance is 4 kg.
234 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Multiply by E three minus T over Tao Tao is 40 milliseconds. So I hope you can see that at this moment at one Tao.
235 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
It's 12.64 votes. We we did not wait until the 5000, we already disconnect or discharge and that's why it happens like this. So similarly, the current.
236 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This is reducing, but we did not wait until, 5000 we start to discharge immediately, go to the opposite opposite signal or sign and now increase.
237 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Back to here, take back back to increase. So this is the today's concept is capacitors. I hope you you can see the concept especially Tao and so forth.
238 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And with that, I will close the session. So thank you very much and see you next, next week. See you next week. Thank you.
239 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So view the response.
240 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Choose. I think today's a very good, very good, very good results next week. Ah, yes yes, ok.
241 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So today's very good comments overall and a lot of ten 8.3368 point ten ok.
242 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So this is overall for today. Just 2nd. Yeah.
243 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So I think 590. You are on Thursday or Wednesday? 590 oaks. But I will send you the answer.
244 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay. I think.
245 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm not.
246 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
This room, I want to do it. 1 h.
247 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And my class is.
248 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Either.
249 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But very. You want it next week? Oh, next week. Yeah. Yes yes.
250 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
You. I could do it.
251 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Let me check the room. Which room is this? This is 3.4 3.44.
252 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
3.44 is three? Today is Tuesday, yeah? Today is Wednesday. Wednesday, is it free? 104, anything else using?
253 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
02:30 in this room, but not not 1130, so Monday, Friday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
254 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Oh, Wednesday 1130. No, Wednesday there's a class. I need to find a room. Please follow me. Yeah.
255 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
The last we found this week.
256 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Now, right? So we multiplied by five to find their It doesn't matter that we didn't charge it fully, didn't give it 5000 C.
257 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Because it doesn't matter that we didn't. So it's Anyways it takes 5000 to transfer this. It doesn't matter that's only one.
258 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, here also.
259 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
But this part we use here polyestero plastic film rights and we and we also explored these types so this technology is used in these elements be the B polyesterol film kind of.
260 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And can tell them if this technology is used in this yellow. Okay. And this part here we have like arrows for that yes and the opposite side and the resultant is given greater than the initial one. Yes. Is it ok.
261 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
One of them.
262 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
So they are all positive, but there's often be.
263 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Not that they like sometimes. And this part I don't understand, but what is it? Oh, this is.
264 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah, so and this one is Max is.
265 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, it's it's type of. And this one is like watch.
266 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
And this one is. No, this is what is your 1 s? Yeah, and how do you call this.
267 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Just to describe it, yeah, just to describe. And the two formal is two different. And what's, is it ok.
268 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Probably you learn about?
269 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Thank you.
270 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
How do you find the whole feature 1st this one? Yeah.
271 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
1st minutes.
272 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Yeah. Everything. The name is Yeah.
273 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Just one more 2nd question.
274 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
I'm still.
275 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Monday.
276 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, uh.
277 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
278 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, uh.
279 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
280 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, uh.
281 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
282 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)
Okay, uh.
283 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (2065579776)